um i'm brian murray i'm partner and ceo
at craft ventures
i've had the
extreme pleasure of working with my two
guests here
dorina coulia co-founder of open phone
and jen knight co-founder of agent sync
and if there's one acronym i've heard
over and over and over at this
conference it's plg
so we might as well talk a little bit
more about that and actually why maybe
it's not always a great idea
um
so i got the slides here
okay wanted to set set the table a
little bit um i think the reason why
this plg meme is just so resonant is
because there's something real to it
there's clearly been a trend in how
software has been delivered in the b2b
space
we pulled up some charts here so on the
left you can just see the number of plg
ipos since 2012 it's been
hockey sticking
similarly the performance of these
stocks
relative to nasdaq index
or just general tech stocks plg seems to
see some somehow performance
um so for good reason we're talking
about this but we should think more
my view is that we should think a lot
more critically about what we're taught
like what is plg why is it so important
and that's what we've got two experts
here to to lead that discussion today
um
i'm gonna zip through these slides but
in a in a the most distilled version the
way i think about plg is look at a
product's website does it say try it or
does it say talk to someone um get a
demo or try for free that's usually what
you see and that that sort of
distinguishes a bottom-up plg company
from
a abm account based marketing or sales
led company
so a few again just set the table a few
of the merits of plg usually it's high
margin lead gen shorter sales cycles
you get some marketing and brand
externalities
and it forces you to have a very good
product on the other hand
it forces you to have a very good
product so you can't hide behind
anything you have less control of your
sales cycle
i used to work at yammer the sales team
would often complain that their biggest
competitor was a free version of yammer
so you introduced that
competitor which is yourself
but
uh rather than me ramble on about this
let's turn it over to the expert so i
want to start with
with jen knight again co-founder of
agentsync um jen i want to hear a little
you guys have been absolutely crushing
it so congratulations on all your
success
not a bottom-up company nope not at all
um but you've worked at plenty of
bottom-up companies i have so would love
to hear about your history so how you
you know what happened before you get
you and need you started agent sync how
you guys have thought through um you
know your go to market motion
i'll have a few follow-up questions from
there yeah so
my co-founder and i met at linkedin he
was in tails operations i was in sales
systems and that was where we learned
actually quite a bit about sales led
growth uh linkedin has that on the
recruiting side of the house in a
massive way so we were there in 2011 and
that's where we met i went from there to
dropbox and then to stripe and saw the
journey of product led transitioning
into a portion of the business being a
sales lead and then we started agent
sync together in
mid-2018
and really brought it to market in late
20 or early 2019 and kind of accelerated
from there we focus on back office
software for insurance
carriers and agencies it's all around
distribution management and onboarding
which might be terms that are foreign to
many people in this room but needless to
say the back office of insurance is not
a very tidy place and is still filled
with spreadsheets and really inefficient
processes so our product was really
tackling licensing administration how do
you bring agents into your company in an
efficient way and it is a business
application
so there is no
really bottoms-up motion there we had to
have a product that could get the
frontline licensing admin interested and
excited but they aren't in control of
you know buying new software they go
through procurement we go through
massive rfps
we're talking about selling to large
enterprises so that try it for free was
not a great motion for us to start and
that's not where we started out
and um
i think one interesting part of the
agency story and related to plg is
oftentimes a new startup needs to go plg
to prove themselves to earn credibility
like look here's the great product that
we've created since you guys didn't have
that how did you earn credibility from
day one yeah it was a great good
question uh so niji had a lot of
connections in the space from his time
at benefits so he went through that
roller coaster a little bit uh with
brian's familiar with and we started by
bringing a you know mvp to market that
was pretty lightweight but testing a
hypothesis about what was working and we
went to the community of licensing
admins we knew and we said is this at
all exciting there was also a lot of why
are you tackling this this is weird
other people have solved it but once we
started to figure out how to frame the
conversation it was finding a few
friendly faces and selling into those
getting that momentum and then figuring
out how to branch out from there so
we're very niche vertical
but once we found that fit and found
that voice it helped need you go out he
was at that point all of the go to
market and and kind of get that ball
rolling and then it took toppling a few
insurtex and
hub which is one of the largest property
and casualty agencies in the u.s and
once we got those logos that open the
door for the rest of it
awesome
one more question for you before we turn
it over to gerina um
so
it's interesting what we're looking at
on the slide here um tell us a little
bit about that and also how your your
thinking around plg has evolved now that
you guys have a lot of different product
lines um what's been the arc there and
what are we looking at on this slide
yeah so we're looking at our amazing
transformation of our call to action
over the last year which is uh it hasn't
changed
we are evolving you know a lot of how
we've built out the sales team and uh
you know different layers there and some
of the other motions we have in play but
effectively getting a demo and having
someone walk you through this process is
the most powerful emotion for us
we are starting to actually experiment
more with proofs of concept and and kind
of the try it for free version in the
enterprise which is how do i give you
the tool
um in not a trial and truly a proof of
concept and we have a way that we're
built on salesforce that allows us to do
that rapidly which has been kind of fun
it's not plg in the traditional sense
but it is a we get you in the
conversation and then we do let you try
it for free for a little while
we're also starting to think about a
product that is more broker-facing or
agent-facing um and i appreciate that
that will change for us we can't ask
them to get a demo that's going to be
something that we have to explore so
it's a it's a muscle we'll have to build
as we expand out our product but most of
what we've been doing is experimenting
with better ways to demo more bespoke
demos demos that we can hand off to
people so they can use them
and then really have that power of the
sales cycle
awesome yeah let's talk about demos in a
bit um drina over to you so
so agent sync the story with kraft and
our partnership with agent sync most of
us many of us at kraft worked at zenovic
so we we knew niji and and the founding
story and the problem they were solving
um but had we not known that it would
have been hard for us to really get a
grasp on the product
um
open phone
uh on the other hand we were able to try
it right away as soon as we met you guys
the first thing we did was we tried the
product um
and so tell us a little bit about your
what first of all what you guys are
doing um and then how you have how your
evolution of thinking around
distribution has evolved over time
for sure oh sorry that was i was told
don't bring it too close ice cream cone
that's right
hi everyone so um maybe to start uh and
yes brian and now that you mention it
you did try it right away which is quite
interesting if you're talking to an
investor and then they've already been
playing in your product so you're like
okay like you know everything what can i
tell you about this product you've
you've done it all you've seen it all
so maybe first a little bit about open
phone um in the most simple way we give
you a business phone number in an app so
pretty straightforward uh the reason why
we started open phone is that
both me and my co-founder our our
parents are small business owners
and i know i've seen my dad
panic over not missing any call like
literally dinner time
no matter what he picks up every call
and what was interesting is we we saw
that so many businesses rely on the
phone and i mean voice and messaging for
as a critical channel as their really
lifeblood yet the solutions on the
market are
either incredibly complicated you can't
use them they're just just horrible and
we just thought it was uh it was crazy
that something so important uh was not
done in a very elegant and modern way
and we started building it we also saw a
lot of businesses a lot of people using
their personal phone number for business
and uh that was a bad idea and no
privacy and and just a mess no way to
collaborate with your team we thought it
was um
just something we had to solve and um
from the get go as a team of two people
you can imagine we did not
necessarily think that we could build an
enterprise phone system
and sell it to banks right we we saw the
problem with small businesses and we
thought okay we can build an app so um
so the early version of open phone was
very focused on solo proprietor it was
very and thank you for the slide
this was our early website and this was
the product i mean right now we're
across platform on all devices but we
started with an ios app
and we found product market fit there
first
from a distribution perspective because
we focused initially on solo proprietors
we didn't even think of doing sales
because uh your acv is pretty low also
the whole idea here is that you can try
something immediately and it's low
friction that is what we wanted to
disrupt from seeing our competitors so i
think our initial go to market was very
natural um and and yeah get started for
free that was our cta it's still our cta
um and and i can tell you from the
evolution perspective when we
um what we learned is that as we
introduced a multiplayer mode in the
product as we
introduced open fund for teams we
learned that we have another motion here
which is
land and expand which is beautiful you
start with a couple of people in on the
team using you and then you grow within
that company so as we introduce that
motion we have introduced a call to
action called talk to sales it's still a
secondary call to action but it's there
as you can see
and you know we've we've actually
we have two of my colleagues here on
sales and cs we have uh we have
introduced those motions we've hired uh
folks to uh to offer that sort of sales
assist um and help our customers be more
successful
but but this was kind of um you know we
couldn't have started here uh when we
were a very simple product for solo
proprietors
yeah so so what i'm hearing is is a
convergence story between the two
business models right so dorina you your
acv was low so you it really just didn't
make sense to have sales driven uh go to
market but now you're moving up market
acvs are growing people are expecting
that touch point so now you're exploring
sales assist
um
and jen interesting for you guys you
you've i mean you've done a very good
job penetrating your market and now
you're exploring how a plg or demo like
thing can
what is that going to do for you what do
you think the main merits of that are
for agency at this point
yeah there's there's two areas that
we're thinking about it for one long
tail of agencies so there's a product
space and i think it's acv driven right
where it's not going to make sense for
us to do a pure sales motion and so as
we think about evolving our product kind
of the reverse direction of where open
phone has has been to go to agencies
that have two three four five agents
that motion is going to need to change
the other thing that we have been
figuring out is in we are a different
way to approach a known problem and so
we found for some of our larger
enterprise customers is that they're
excited about it in theory but they
really do need to get their hands on it
because they need to see how the team is
going to change their motion and it's
really powerful for us to be able to
give them
a
try it for free motion that is you know
month long it's a little bit of a more
involved thing there and there's a lot
of work that we have to do on our side
to make that work but we've we figured
out that that's a really important step
for us as we're helping people
understand how they're going to map
their current world into a new world or
shift things around and get them
confident that the capabilities are
there we have a pretty complex product
with a lot of regulatory obligations
matched to it so
you you can you need to win up and down
the team to make sure
it gets you know gets traction and gets
going in the right way and that's where
we've started to shift that motion
and
amongst the sales team
what's been the impact of them are they
changing their motion are they changing
the way they interact with their
prospects um has that been difficult any
learnings there
our vp of sales has a great thing which
i was thinking a lot about coming into
this which is that we do a lot of team
selling
and that's been a big part of our motion
from the start which is uh they go out
and they are understanding what the
customer's problem statement is working
with our customer success team we have a
customer solutions engineering team uh
when i when we were much smaller and it
was just me and nietzsche it was you
know product and engineering and sales
and support all together thinking about
how do we make this the most successful
conversation so i i think there's a sort
of
false sense of like there's a loan sales
person out there kind of making up for
everything that's happening in the
product and they're gonna get it over
the line there's there's a whole team of
people who come together and that's what
we've really figured out how to fine
tune or we're starting to figure out how
to fine tune and then evolve the
composition of the team for larger
enterprise
deals and insurance some things are two
two and a half year long deal cycles so
you have to get ready and you have to be
creative on how you're tackling that
there's not one motion yeah
and um and dorina for you since
introducing that second button talk to
sales
tell us a little bit about how that
affected the
company culture the i know how's here
from the sales team how how you guys are
interacting with your clients
differently now that you've embraced
this
um more high-touch uh customer
experience absolutely i think that for
us um it's so so you see a talk to sales
button but i think behind it is is
really this uh this approach of um
really helping our customers i think
because
like like you mentioned you know with a
try for free cta anyone can try the
product so for you to talk to sales uh
sales is not there to to show you how to
click buttons or say we have this
feature we don't have this feature sales
is really there to add value and help
you solve your business problem and we
also have paired sales with customer
success so so really the idea here is
that you can absolutely do most of
things without talking to anyone on open
phone in fact we have a lot of
documentation our support
portal is really well documented uh we
have also videos and you know so much
content you really
in most times you may not even need to
talk to anyone but when you do we are
there to help you on a more strategic
level versus just kind of training you
how to use our product
um
and the
the interplay between customer success
and sales is super interesting for plg
companies right because they're already
using your product you want them to be
successful but at some point you want to
have a commercial conversation with them
so how have and i've seen all different
flavors of this different companies how
is open phone approaching that
yeah so the way we're approaching it is
that and and i also want to say this is
very new for us we are in the early
stages of this our our philosophy is
that you know when you when you are a
customer uh at a certain threshold we
have uh our dedicated uh customer
success manager uh help you get the most
out of the platform and really the goal
there is helping you you know like you
you sign up for the product for a
certain reason you have a certain
problem you want to solve let's really
make sure we solve it for your
organization and sales comes in when
there are barriers hurdles when there is
that commercial discussion needed um but
but but sales interacts in a different
way there versus with a net new customer
who signs who signs up through that form
right it's more obviously they're more
intentional about talking to sales the
button literally says talk to sales
that's right i think you can make some
assumptions there yeah um
so jen for for you
how does
with the more traditional go to market
motion
are you bringing customer success in
pre-sales in any cases and then also how
are you all handling
expansion since you have a variety of
product lines there's a lot of like
upsells upsell potential how have you
figured out the team dynamics at agency
yeah it's evolving on the dynamics but
cs has been involved they get involved
in customer conversations pretty early
around scoping out implementation and
thinking through those details so we sit
in a kind of complicated value chain in
the back office and it's really
important for us to know going in what
customers
would consider true success which is
usually being integrated with some
system upstream some system downstream
we want to make sure we're going into
that eyes wide open what can agency do
where are we feeding data where are we
consuming data from more technical
conversations in that lens and so sales
has
sales engineering support and then
customer success early days would just
come in and help with that and helped
start the conversation and get familiar
faces
on on the phone and i have a team that
actually is on the engineering side of
the house which is
there just to do
very specific uh solutions engineering
for customers as they come on board so
that we can make sure that we're solving
so much we're saying like their actual
problem statement and not just trying to
cram them into the agency shape of how
we're doing things so it's a it's a
whole group that comes together for that
and we've been refining that motion a
lot as we went from you know one person
doing it to figuring out what those
roles actually are and we're still
figuring out where those cut lines are
and kind of shifting those teams around
but it is it is a community that comes
together one thing that we were really
focused on
early on from some of our prior
experiences was making sure that once we
got someone over the wall we weren't
just celebrating the sales win and then
forgetting that they exist so our first
hires were actually customer success
niji
put that in play because he was nervous
about selling more
and we put a hold on selling because we
wanted to make sure that we could make
people successful and then we ramped up
the sales team and so they've always had
that mentality of we're doing this
together we're doing it about a life
cycle for the customer it's not just
kind of a one and done motion
and that feeds a little bit to expansion
our customer success team leads most of
those conversations we're starting to
bring more product lines and learning
what that motion is going to look like
but they've done a fantastic job because
they're responsible for owning that
relationship really knowing the customer
pain points and then seeing where the
opportunities are and thinking
creatively with them on how best to
solve it either with our products or
with some of our partners frankly
that's interesting i'm thinking about
niji's mentality in their first when
you're first selling because there is no
plg you sell you get a customer now they
start using it like they just started
using it right whereas uh open phone you
guys are having a bunch of people using
it before you're starting to sell
i would love to hear both of your
take on advice for new founders so they
have their idea they're considering
going to market
they can take the agent sync path or
they can take the open phone path what
are some
what are some words of wisdom since you
both have found product market fit
you've been successful in your
respective
distribution methods what are some
advice for founders who are yet to
release their products so they they
haven't really made that decision yet
yeah well um
i think in terms of advice i mean
obviously you probably all know that
everyone's path is so different that i
think it's certain principles or maybe
experience that we can share i would say
that
you know for us
specifically the go-to-market motion was
very it was very obvious because we
actually wanted to disrupt our
competitors go to market motion so the
only way to do that was to be like hey
we want to build such a great product
that we can open it up try it for free
and and you know that's it i think that
when you're picking your go to market
motion you have to think about uh the
space you're in uh how busy it is the
alternatives that your customers can go
to whether it's alternatives like direct
competitors or maybe alternative being
excel spreadsheet or not doing anything
you have to think about that and also i
think a huge lesson here is you know for
us as as our acv grows uh sales is
actually a viable motion it was really
not before so based on your category and
your pricing your pricing model
that can really dictate uh what option
you have available to you so um so i
would say kind of focus on that and go
back to first principles like who are
your customers what is the problem
you're solving for them and what is you
know what go to market motion makes
sense for the value you want to offer
jen what do you got like what do i add
to that um i i think in the same spirit
i the thing that i've
observed for ages but also prior to that
is just flexibility here you know there
is a evolving set of motions um for us
you know it really made sense we're
selling into enterprise into these
complicated deals so it's meeting your
customer where they are trying not to
force something that isn't going to be a
fit being flexible to learning when it
isn't to fit and reiterating on it and
knowing that you're going to have to do
that a few times we were talking a
little bit about this of sales we were
sales first but you know sales assist
coming in i've seen that feel very
strange for organizations and it's
actually kind of awesome it means you're
just approaching new customers in a
different way and so a lot of
open-mindedness of this is not the
pinnacle of success to do it this way or
this way it's actually usually a fluid
conversation and if you are going up
market you're going to have to change
and if you're going to expand out in our
case to you know the tail end of the
agency market we're going to have to
change it's just constantly learning
that i i've also appreciated a ton
from my time at linkedin and also at
agentsync that building a sales a
successful and healthy
sales motion with a sales team is a ton
of work similar to the plg side and i
know i'm going to have to learn a ton as
we start to understand you know how you
do this try for free motion but there's
there's a whole community of people
on both sides that have to come together
that have really different skills and so
that's one thing i i would say is just
know that it's never a snap of your
fingers uh it's going to take a lot of
experimentation and a combination of
sales marketing customer success it's a
it's a team uh it's not a one team or
one individual kind of motion
so we've established that plg is neither
a boondoggle nor a panacea i think is
the theme here
another piece of practical wisdom that
i'd love to hear from both of you is
experimentation so you both are at this
interesting point where you've
established yourself in one model and
you're open-minded to another model now
that can be a big time sync especially
like in the case of experimenting with
plg it's very rnd heavy in the case of
experimenting with sales assist it's
kind of like cultural and
employees and so i'd love to hear from
both of you how are you thinking about
um dedicating resources to exploring
this this new territory and darina maybe
we can start with you um
is it
i guess the first question would be is
it so obvious that you need to do it
it's just a matter of uh learning from
other people who've done it before and
implementing those things and iterating
your way through there or how are you
thinking about it
yeah that's a great question i i'm
trying to remember where i saw this but
i must probably on twitter because uh
where else do i get my information i
feel i feel like there was someone
someone mentioned uh you know i'm gonna
innovate on my product and i'm gonna not
innovate on other things um so
essentially i think the point is that um
you know it's already really really hard
to innovate in the critical area at
least for us in our business which is
our product so we try our best to take
best practices and and really advice in
many other areas that are not not
necessarily our core competency um and i
would say when it comes to sales i think
i feel like um a lot of a lot of the
problems that we've uh we've faced a lot
of other companies have gone through
those so i'm a big fan of like learning
from from them and making sure that we
are you know
we're learning from others mistakes
which is always nice um in terms of your
question around resourcing i think that
um
this almost came a little naturally to
us because the reason why you see talk
to sales there is because before we had
that button before we hired our first
sales person before all of that
um we we are plg right but i would
somehow get emails
and and people maybe guessed my email
because it's so easy to guess but i
would just have people who want to talk
to me uh or talk about the product or
see a demo
and that's what i was like well i don't
think i can do all of these demos um
does that mean we need a sales assist
motion so it almost like hit us
like that like forced into it basically
essentially but that that that is what
uh what taught us that hey our customers
actually want to talk to us because they
have more certain uh you know uh have
more sophisticated requirements and they
and given our nature of the product
we're a very critical tool for you so
your if your communications relies on us
and there's nobody here to have that
one-on-one discussion with you might be
very nervous about switching and you
might be very nervous about signing up
so we just realized that hey this is
we're losing on a lot of business and
it was quite obvious and at this point
we also know that we want to invest in
our sales team and our customer success
team and just a quick plug we are hiring
ahead of sales just fyi i was told i can
do a plug but of course yeah okay that's
the point of this right you know you can
find my email somewhere i'm sure but
yeah we're hiring ahead of sales so yeah
we're investing in it full-on awesome
and jen how about you yeah so for us uh
there is not a
an obvious um
it's very greenfield space there's not
an obvious
product that is out there for agents and
agent-facing that kind of part of the
market and so
for for me and as we're starting to
think about me and needy together of how
do we want to do that and tackle it and
not have it be a distraction it's a
really great question because we know
there's just a ton to learn not only on
plg but just what does product market
fit look like that for that motion and
it's very very different than what we've
done to date so we've actually hired a
team a group of individuals who are
going to be just focused on that as an
experiment and boxed into that for a
while in a fun way uh boxing sounds
harsh but uh we
in a principled way you know we're going
to go take that bet and hear the
resources we're going to put behind it
and then start to just measure out from
a metrics different perspective of what
are we learning what do we want to do
and then how would we continue to invest
or then realize that that was not the
right motion but it's a it's a pretty
new space for the industry and so we're
kind of cautiously tiptoeing into it
knowing that we have to put a
substantial number of product and
engineering resources behind it to get a
compelling mvp out the door
is this um i've seen this like tiger
team before to figure it out and it's uh
extremely cross-functional right because
it's product it's engineering it's
marketing it's sales it's customer
success so um
maybe unpack that a little bit like how
big is this team how are they working
with the different uh functional groups
at agent sync are they talking to
customers like what what sort of tips do
you have in designing a sort of
sequester team like this to figure it
out yeah so we started with a very
experienced
product manager in this space um brought
in an engineering manager who's built
consumer-facing products before
who will eventually be growing a team
under this once we figure out what that
team needs to be
and then we also have right now on that
team someone from business ops and then
uh someone from our customer success
team so they can bring a customer
perspective early and start doing that
side of the house and that's our like
very initial small team and then we'll
figure out how we need to expand it and
who needs to be there but
um
so last last question i have for you
both um well i have a lot of questions
but last one i've got on my list here is
um
demos so i feel like demo the demo is
the bridge between plg and abm right
because you're doing demos and you're
doing demos
and it's sort of a
revealing of the product to someone in a
guided way
so we'd love to hear from both of you
dorina starting with you when you're
doing a demo
presumably the person you're demoing has
already seen the product or maybe even
using it so how are you using those
what's the point of you getting on the
phone with people in in the demo context
great question yeah it is a commonality
we have right because everything else
was was different in terms of a demo we
actually to do um i'm now thinking there
are two uh types of demos that that uh
kind of i can share that we do there's
one type of demo which you mentioned
brian which is when you click on the
talk to sales button you you give some
information and then based on what you
share we can you know follow up and do a
demo with you one to one and then
there's another type of demo we do which
is not shown here which is a weekly live
demo which is uh almost like a plg
scalable version of that demo except for
you are on a webinar i mean i actually
don't like the word webinar it's like a
fun live demo webinars usually suck
right so
it's a fun like live demo and that's a
that's a great
we do it every week that's that's a demo
that really makes sense for
our like velocity model because uh
because for certain folks we can do
one-to-one demo but as we scale the
sales team you know we will probably
have more capacity but we have to be a
little bit pickier now in terms of who
we can do a personal demo for
but the weekly demo is really nice
because it allows us to
give that guided tour of the product
show different use cases at scale
so actually i would say if any of you
here has a you know if you're a plg
company
and you're not sure about doing a
personal demo start with a weekly
live demo and
and then that can help help you learn
and see if there's appetite for
something a little bit more custom
awesome i see a negative sign next to
our timer here jenna would love to hear
your final thoughts on demos and agent
sync and how you guys use them i will do
this very quickly so we no one can see
our product unless we demo it to you so
no one has come in seeing it before
unless they've seen it at a prior role
which is starting to happen and is kind
of fun
so we do a set of demos agency mga
carrier that are the standard demo and
then depending on the size of the deal
and the complexity of the use case we
have a team that will customize that and
do a deeper dive with customers and then
depending on the size of the deal and
the customer use case that is where we
also end up in the proof of concept
which is more what we are calling a you
know a demo environment will hand over
to you so we really have three flavors
of it which is our standard one that
we'll show you and then depending on
that customer's needs and and the deal
size you can kind of go up and down but
we've experimented quite a bit with that
awesome awesome all right well we're
we're out of time a minute and 40
seconds negative out of time thank you
everybody for coming uh i think we have
a takeaway slide here which is
plg
not for everyone very powerful so if
you're a founder out there i hope you
learned something today thank you dorina
thank you jen this was an awesome
conversation and we'll see you all at
the conference
[Music]
you